Gabriel Quaresma

Software developer at Codeminer42

Graduation in Systems Analysis and Development and Master’s degree in Computer Systems (Research
line in distributed systems) from the Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte (UFRN)

Personal website: https://joaogabriel55.github.io
E-mail: j.quaresmasantos98@gmail.com
LinkedIn: gabriel-quaresma-dev



LANGUAGES

Portuguese - Native / English - Full professional ﬂuency


PERSONAL STATEMENT

Web Developer | 5+ Years Experience in Front-End Development

Skilled in building web applications/solutions with React.js and TypeScript, with a strong foundation in
Node.js and sometimes I play with Ruby on Rails for back-end. I’m passionate about delivering seamless
user experiences and thrive in collaborative team environments. Constantly learning, I stay updated with

emerging technologies and best practices to write better code.


WORK EXPERIENCE

Software developer at Codeminer42 - Full Time

JAN 2021 - PRESENT
As a Front-End Developer, I specialise in React.js to build dynamic user interfaces and contribute to

back-end development using Ruby on Rails and Node.js. I organised an internal company workshop on
DevOps, covering Containers and CI/CD pipelines. Additionally, I mentor colleagues in front-end
development, fostering skill growth and team collaboration.

Skills: TypeScript · JavaScript · React.js · Ruby · Ruby on Rails

Software developer at GoDaddy - Contract
JULY 2022 - PRESENT

Contractor via Codeminer42
I am involved in e-commerce projects that deal with product ordering and shipping. My main area of

focus is front-end development, where I use React.js, Next.js (with Typescript), and the Apollo Client to
work with GraphQL. On the backend, I used to work with Node.js (with Typescript), GraphQL, and
DynamoDB.

Skills: TypeScript · GraphQL · Next.js · React.js · Node.js · DynamoDB

--- page 1 ---

Front-end developer at Grano Capital - Contract
MAR 2021 - MAY 2022

Contractor via Codeminer42
I developed pre-ﬁnancing solutions for agriculture, handling sensitive data, payment methods, and

GeoJSON. I created map interfaces using Figma, React.js, Mapbox.js, and Ruby on Rails and assisted
colleagues in integrating external APIs.

Skills: Redux.js · Mapbox · Jest · Ruby on Rails · JavaScript · React.js

FIWARE Contributor - Volunteer

JUN 2019 - DEC 2020
I was tasked with developing new features and writing unit tests for Orion-LD Context Broker using
C/C++. Ken Zangelin, a Senior Technical Expert and evangelist, supervised the process.

Skills: C++

Smart Metropolis project, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte - Studentship

MAR 2019 - DEC 2020
I have experience working as a full-stack developer on Smart Cities projects that involve using maps,

integrating data, and using FIWARE technologies.
Skills: Python · Java · Spring Framework · Vue.js



RELEVANT PROJECTS

Personal projects

Flow Podcast app, a simple app for the famous Flow Podcast program with over 100 downloads, allows
users to listen to and favourite the episodes. The app was developed using the Flutter framework and
consuming the public API of Flow.

The Invoice is a lightweight, client-side web application built exclusively with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
Enables users to quickly create professional-looking invoices, customize details, and export them as PDF

for easy sharing. All data is stored locally in the browser using localStorage. No server, cloud
dependencies, or external APIs ensure full privacy, oﬄine functionality, and instant accessibility.

--- page 2 ---

